FOR REVIEW PURPOSES ONLY (#1)
ckittel/Azure-Governance-Visualizer: README.md

# Azure Governance Visualizer aka AzGovViz

Do you want to get granular insights on your technical Azure Governance implementation? - document it in CSV, HTML, Markdown and JSON?
Azure Governance Visualizer is a PowerShell based script that iterates your Azure Tenant´s Management Group hierarchy down to Subscription level. It captures most relevant Azure governance capabilities such as Azure Policy, RBAC and Blueprints and a lot more. From the collected data Azure Governance Visualizer provides visibility on your __HierarchyMap__, creates a __TenantSummary__, creates __DefinitionInsights__ and builds granular __ScopeInsights__ on Management Groups and Subscriptions. The technical requirements as well as the required permissions are minimal.

> You can run the script either for your Tenant Root Group or any other Management Group.

Author: ```suggestion
Do you want to get granular insights on your technical Azure Governance implementation? How about document those insights in CSV, HTML, Markdown, or JSON?

Azure Governance Visualizer is a PowerShell-based script that iterates your Azure tenant's management group hierarchy down to subscription level. It captures relevant Azure governance capabilities such as Azure Policy, role-based access control, blueprints, and more. From the collected data Azure Governance Visualizer provides visibility on your __HierarchyMap__, creates a __TenantSummary__, creates __DefinitionInsights__ and builds granular __ScopeInsights__ on management groups and subscriptions. The technical requirements as well as the required permissions are minimal.

You can run the script either for your tenant root group or any other management group.
```

## Mission

"_Governance can be a complex thing_.."

Challenges:

* Holistic overview on governance implementation
* Connecting the dots

> Azure Governance Visualizer is intended to help you to get a holistic overview on your technical Azure Governance implementation by __connecting the dots__

Author: ```suggestion
Azure Governance Visualizer is intended to help you to get a holistic overview on your technical Azure Governance implementation by __connecting the dots__.
```

> ![ConnectingDot](img/AzGovVizConnectingDots_v4.2.png)

Author: Please provide more meaningful alt-text for this main page image.

> ## Azure Governance Visualizer @ Microsoft CAF & WAF

Author: As part of this publication, you'll want to extend this section into Azure Architecture Center.  Please open a PR for that and that'll be reviewed as part of this.

### Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework (CAF)

> Listed as [tool](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/reference/tools-templates#govern) for the Govern discipline in the Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework

Author: ```suggestion
Listed as [tool](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/resources/tools-templates#govern for the Govern discipline in the Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework
```

> Included in the Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework´s [Strategy-Plan-Ready-Gov](https://azuredevopsdemogenerator.azurewebsites.net/?name=strategyplan) Azure DevOps Demo Generator template

Author: ```suggestion
Included in the Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework's [CAF Strategy-Plan-Ready-Governance](https://azuredevopsdemogenerator.azurewebsites.net/?name=strategyplan) Azure DevOps Demo Generator template
```

### Microsoft Well Architected Framework (WAF)

> Listed as [security monitoring tool](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/framework/security/monitor-tools) in the Microsoft Well Architected Framework

Author: Doesn't appear to be any more?

### Azure Governance Visualizer Accelerator

> The [Azure Governance Visualizer Accelerator](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Governance-Visualizer-Accelerator) provides an easy and fast deployment process that automates the creation and publishing of AzGovViz to an Azure Web Application and provides automation to configuring the pre-requisites for AzGovViz.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Azure Governance Visualizer Accelerator](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Governance-Visualizer-Accelerator) provides an easy and fast deployment process that automates the creation and publishing of AzGovViz to an Azure Web App and provides automation to configuring the prerequisites for AzGovViz.
```

### ChatGPT

> ![ChatGPT](img/chatGPT.png)

Author: Please make this main page image more accessible with meaningful alt-text.

* update `/.azuredevops/pipelines/AzGovViz.variables.yml`
  * add parameter `-ARMLocation` 
* update README.md
  * update [API reference](#api-reference)
* use [AzAPICall](https://aka.ms/AzAPICall) PowerShell module version 1.1.84

[Full release history](history.md)

## Demo

<a href="https://www.azadvertizer.net/azgovvizv4/demo/AzGovViz_demo.html" target="_blank">![Demo](img/demo4_66.png)</a>

[Demo (v6_major_20220927_1)](https://www.azadvertizer.net/azgovvizv4/demo/AzGovViz_demo.html)

More [demo output](https://github.com/JulianHayward/AzGovViz)

### Media

* Microsoft Tech Talks - Bevan Sinclair (Cloud Solution Architect Microsoft) [Automated Governance Reporting in Azure (MTT0AEDT)](https://mtt.eventbuilder.com/event/66431) (register to view)
* Microsoft Dev Radio (YouTube) [Get visibility into your environment with Azure Governance Visualizer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZXvF5oypLE)
* Jack Tracey (Cloud Solution Architect Microsoft) [Azure Governance Visualizer With Azure DevOps](https://jacktracey.co.uk/azgovviz-with-azure-devops/)

### Slideset

Short presentation on Azure Governance Visualizer [[download](slides/AzGovViz_intro.pdf)]

## Features

> * __Hierarchy of Management Groups__

Author: Azure style guide says ALL cases of "management group" must be lowercase.

```suggestion
* __Hierarchy of management groups__
```

>   * Builds a visual hierarchy of your Management Group setup including counts on linked Subscriptions, Policy assignments, scoped Policy/Set definitions and Role assignments per Management Group

Author: ```suggestion
  * Builds a visual hierarchy of your management group setup including counts on linked subscriptions, Azure Policy assignments, scoped Azure Policy/Set definitions and role assignments per management group
```

* __Azure Policy__

>   * Custom Policy definitions

Author: ```suggestion
  * Custom Azure Policy definitions
```

    * Scope information
    * Policy effect

>     * If Policy effect is DeployIfNotExists (DINE) will show the specified RBAC Role

Author: ```suggestion
    * If policy effect is DeployIfNotExists (DINE) will show the specified RBAC role for the associated identity
```

>     * List of assignments

Author: ```suggestion
    * List of policy assignments
```

    * Usage in custom PolicySet definitions
    * System metadata 'createdOn, createdBy, updatedOn, updatedBy' ('createdBy', 'updatedBy' identity is fully resolved)

>   * Orphaned custom Policy definitions

Author: ```suggestion
  * Orphaned custom policy definitions
```

>     * List of custom Policy definitions that matches the following criteria:

Author: ```suggestion
    * List of custom policy definitions that matches the following criteria:
```

      * Policy definition is not used in any custom PolicySet definition

>       * No Policy assignment exists for the Policy definition

Author: ```suggestion
      * No policy assignment exists for the policy definition
```

  * Custom PolicySet definitions
    * Scope information
    * List unique assignments

>     * List of Policy definitions used

Author: ```suggestion
    * List of policy definitions used
```

  * Orphaned custom PolicySet definitions

>     * Criteria: no Policy assignment exists for the PolicySet definition

Author: ```suggestion
    * Criteria: no policy assignment exists for the PolicySet definition
```

>   * Custom PolicySet definitions using deprecated built-in Policy definitions

Author: ```suggestion
  * Custom PolicySet definitions using deprecated built-in policy definitions
```

  * Policy assignments of deprecated built-in Policy definition

>   * Policy Exemptions

Author: ```suggestion
  * Policy assignments of deprecated built-in policy definition
  * Policy exemptions
```

>     * Lists all Exemptions (scopes: Management Groups, Subscriptions, ResourceGroups, Resources)

Author: ```suggestion
    * Lists all exemptions (scopes: management groups, subscriptions, resource groups, and resources)
```

>     * Enrich information on Exemption scope

Author: ```suggestion
    * Enrich information on exemption scope
```

>     * Summary on expired Exemptions

Author: ```suggestion
    * Summary on expired exemptions
```

  * Policy assignments orphaned

>     * Policy assignments's Policy definition does not exist / likely Management Group scoped Policy defintion - Management Group deleted

Author: ```suggestion
    * Policy assignments's policy definition does not exist / likely management group scoped policy defintion - management group deleted
```

>   * Policy assignments throughout the entirety of scopes (Management Groups, Subscriptions and Resource Groups)

Author: What about resources?

>     * Core information on Policy assignments

Author: ```suggestion
    * Core information on policy assignments
```

>       * NonCompliance Message on Policy assignment for a PolicySet will only show the default non-compliance message

Author: ```suggestion
      * NonCompliance message on policy assignment for a PolicySet will only show the default non-compliance message
```

>     * Advanced/enriched information on Policy assignments

Author: ```suggestion
    * Advanced/enriched information on policy assignments
```

      * Policy assignment scope (at scope/inheritance)

>       * Indicates if scope is excluded from Policy assignment

Author: ```suggestion
      * Indicates if scope is excluded from policy assignment
```

>       * Indicates if Exemption applies for scope

Author: ```suggestion
      * Indicates if exemption applies for scope
```

>       * Policy/Resource Compliance (Policy: NonCompliant, Compliant; Resource: NonCompliant, Compliant, Conflicting)

Author: ```suggestion
      * Policy/resource compliance (Policy: NonCompliant, Compliant; Resource: NonCompliant, Compliant, Conflicting)
```

>       * Related RBAC Role assignments (if Policy effect is DeployIfNotExists (DINE) or Modify)

Author: ```suggestion
      * Related RBAC role assignments (if policy effect is DeployIfNotExists (DINE) or Modify)
```

>       * Resolved Managed Identity (if Policy effect is DeployIfNotExists (DINE) or Modify)

Author: ```suggestion
      * Resolved managed identity (if policy effect is DeployIfNotExists (DINE) or Modify)
```

      * System metadata 'createdOn, createdBy, updatedOn, updatedBy' ('createdBy', 'updatedBy' identity is fully resolved)
      * Parameters used

>   * ALZ Policy Version Checker - Azure Landing Zones Policy Version Checker for Policy and Set definitions. Azure Governance Visualizer will clone the ALZ GitHub repository and collect the ALZ policy and set definitions history. The ALZ data will be compared with the data from your tenant so that you can get lifecycle management recommendations for ALZ policy and set definitions that already exist in your tenant plus a list of ALZ policy and set definitions that do not exist in your tenant. The ALZ Policy Version Checker results will be displayed in the __TenantSummary__ and a CSV export `*_ALZPolicyVersionChecker.csv` will be provided.

Author: ```suggestion
  * Azure landing zones (ALZ) Policy Version Checker - ALZ Policy Version Checker for policy and policy set definitions. Azure Governance Visualizer will clone the Azure landing zones GitHub repository and collect the ALZ policy and set definitions history. The ALZ data will be compared with the data from your tenant so that you can get lifecycle management recommendations for Azure policy and set definitions that already exist in your tenant plus a list of ALZ policy and set definitions that do not exist in your tenant. The ALZ Policy Version Checker results will be displayed in the __TenantSummary__ and a CSV export `*_ALZPolicyVersionChecker.csv` will be provided.
```

>   * Policy Remediaton - list all remediatable policies including relevant information such as assignment and definition data

Author: ```suggestion
  * Policy remediaton - list all remediatable policies including relevant information such as assignment and definition data
```

> * __Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)__

Author: ```suggestion
* __Role-based access control (RBAC)__
```

>   * Custom Role definitions

Author: ```suggestion
  * Custom role definitions
```

    * List assignable scopes
    * System metadata 'createdOn, createdBy, updatedOn, updatedBy' ('createdBy', 'updatedBy' identity is fully resolved)

>   * Orphaned custom Role definitions

Author: ```suggestion
  * Orphaned custom role definitions
```

>     * List of custom Role definitions that matches the following criteria:

Author: ```suggestion
    * List of custom role definitions that matches the following criteria:
```

>       * Role definition is not used in any Role assignment

Author: ```suggestion
      * Role definition is not used in any role assignment
```

>       * Role is not used in a Policy definition´s rule (roleDefinitionIds)

Author: ```suggestion
      * Role is not used in a policy definition's rule (roleDefinitionIds)
```

  * Orphaned Role assignments
    * List of Role assignments that matches the following criteria:
      * Role definition was deleted although and assignment existed

>       * Role assignmet's target identity (User, Group, ServicePrincipal) was deleted

Author: ```suggestion
  * Orphaned role assignments
    * List of role assignments that matches the following criteria:
      * Role definition was deleted although and assignment existed
      * Role assignmet's target identity (user, group, or service principal) was deleted
```

  * Role assignments throughout the entirety of scopes (Management Groups, Subscriptions, Resource Groups and Resources)
    * Core information on Role assignments
    * Advanced information on Role assignments
      * Role assignment scope (at scope / inheritance)
      * For Role Assignments on Groups the Microsoft Entra ID (AAD) Group members are fully resolved. With this capability Azure Governance Visualizer can ultimately provide holistic insights on permissions granted
      * For Role Assignments on Groups the Microsoft Entra ID (AAD) Group members count (transitive) will be reported
      * For identity-type == 'ServicePrincipal' the type (Application (internal/external) / ManagedIdentity (System assigned/User assigned)) will be revealed
      * For identity-type == 'User' the userType (Member/Guest) will be revealed
      * Related Policy assignments (Policy assignment that leverages the DeployIfNotExists (DINE) or Modify effect)
      * System metadata 'createdOn, createdBy' ('createdBy' identity is fully resolved)
      * Determine if the Role assignment is 'standing' or PIM (Privileged Identity Management) managed

>       * Determine if the Role assignmet's Role definition is capable to write Role assignments

Author: ```suggestion
  * Role assignments throughout the entirety of scopes (management groups, subscriptions, resource groups, and resources)
    * Core information on role assignments
    * Advanced information on role assignments
      * Role assignment scope (at scope / inheritance)
      * For role assignments on groups the Microsoft Entra group members are fully resolved. With this capability Azure Governance Visualizer can ultimately provide holistic insights on permissions granted.
      * For role assignments on groups the Microsoft Entra group members count (transitive) will be reported
      * For identity-type == 'ServicePrincipal' the type (Application (internal/external) / ManagedIdentity (System assigned/User assigned)) will be revealed
      * For identity-type == 'User' the userType (Member/Guest) will be revealed
      * Related policy assignments (Policy assignment that uses the DeployIfNotExists (DINE) or Modify effect)
      * System metadata 'createdOn, createdBy' ('createdBy' identity is fully resolved)
      * Determine if the role assignment is 'standing' or PIM (Privileged Identity Management) managed
      * Determine if the role assignmet's role definition is capable to write role assignments
```

  * PIM (Privileged Identity Management) eligibility for Role assignments
    * Get a full report of all PIM eligible Role assignments for Management Groups and Subscriptions, including resolved User members of Microsoft Entra ID (AAD) Groups that have assigned eligibility

>     * &#x1F4A1; Note: this feature requires you to execute as Service Principal with `Application` API permission `PrivilegedAccess.Read.AzureResources`

Author: ```suggestion
  * PIM (Privileged Identity Management) eligibility for role assignments
    * Get a full report of all PIM eligible role assignments for management groups and subscriptions, including resolved User members of Microsoft Entra groups that have assigned eligibility
    * &#x1F4A1; Note: this feature requires you to execute as a service principal with `Application` API permission `PrivilegedAccess.Read.AzureResources`
```

  * Role assignments ClassicAdministrators
  * Security & Best practice analysis
    * Existence of custom Role definition that reflect 'Owner' permissions
    * Report all Role definitions that are capable to write Role assignments, list all Role assignments for those Role definitions
    * Role assignments for 'Owner' permissions on identity-type == 'ServicePrincipal'
    * Role assignments for 'Owner' permissions on identity-type != 'Group'
    * Role assignments for 'User Access Administrator' permissions on identity-type != 'Group'

>     * High priviledge Role assignments for 'Guest Users' (Owner & User Access Administrator)

Author: ```suggestion
  * Security & best practice analysis
    * Existence of custom role definition that reflect 'Owner' permissions
    * Report all role definitions that are capable to write role assignments, list all role assignments for those role definitions
    * Role assignments for 'Owner' permissions on identity-type == 'ServicePrincipal'
    * Role assignments for 'Owner' permissions on identity-type != 'Group'
    * Role assignments for 'User Access Administrator' permissions on identity-type != 'Group'
    * High priviledge role assignments for 'Guest Users' (Owner & User Access Administrator)
```

* __Blueprints__
  * Blueprint scopes and assignments
  * Orphaned Blueprints
* __Management Groups__
  * Management Group count, level/depth, MG children, Sub children
  * Hierarchy Settings | Default Management Group Id

>   * Hierarchy Settings | Require authorization for Management Group creation

Author: ```suggestion
* __Management groups__
  * Management group count, level/depth, children, and sub children
  * Hierarchy Settings | Default Management Group ID
  * Hierarchy Settings | Require authorization for management group creation
```

> * __Subscriptions, Resources & Defender__

Author: ```suggestion
* __Subscriptions, resources, & Microsoft Defender__
```

  * Subscription insights
    * State
    * QuotaId
    * Role assignment limit
    * Tags

>     * Owner & User Access Administrator Role assignment count (at scope) direct and indirect plus PIM eligibility count

Author: ```suggestion
    * Owner & User Access Administrator role assignment count (at scope) direct and indirect plus PIM eligibility count
```

>     * Microsoft Defender for Cloud Secure Score

Author: ```suggestion
    * Microsoft Defender for Cloud secure score
```

>     * Microsoft Defender for Cloud Email notifications configuration

Author: ```suggestion
    * Microsoft Defender for Cloud email notifications configuration
```

    * Cost

>     * Management Group path

Author: ```suggestion
    * Management group path
```

>   * Tag Name usage

Author: ```suggestion
  * Tag name usage
```

>     * Insights on usage of Tag Names on Subscriptions, ResourceGroups and Resources

Author: ```suggestion
    * Insights on usage of Tag names on subscriptions, resource groups, and resources
```

  * Resources
    * Resource Types
      * ResourceType count per location
      * Resource Provider
        * Resource Provider state aggregation throughout all Subscriptions
        * Explicit Resource Provider state per Subscription
      * Resource Locks

>         * Aggregated insights for Lock and respective Lock-type usage on Subscriptions, ResourceGroups and Resources

Author: ```suggestion
    * Resource types
      * Resource type count per location
      * Resource Provider
        * Resource Provider state aggregation throughout all subscriptions
        * Explicit Resource Provider state per subscription
      * Resource Locks
        * Aggregated insights for Lock and respective Lock-type usage on subscriptions, resource groups, and resources
```

        * CSV output detailed / each scope that has a lock applied (at scope)
    * Resource fluctuation - added/removed resources since previous Azure Governance Visualizer execution
      * Aggregated insights on resource fluctuation add/remove (HTML)
      * Detailed insights on resource fluctuation add/remove (CSV)
    * Cost optimization & cleanup (ARG)
      * If you run Azure Governance Visualizer with parameter -DoAzureConsumption then the orphaned/unused resources output will show you potential cost savings for orphaned/unused resources with intent 'cost savings'
      * The Cost optimization & cleanup feature is based on [Azure Orphan Resources - GitHub](https://github.com/dolevshor/azure-orphan-resources) ARG queries and workbooks by Dolev Shor
      * The virtual machines that are stopped but not deallocated are still generating compute costs. You should check if there are virtual machines running within your environment that are only stopped. The output will show these virtual machines with intent 'cost savings - stopped but not deallocated VM'.

>     * Cloud Adoption Framework (CAF) [Recommended abbreviations for Azure resource types](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/ready/azure-best-practices/resource-abbreviations) compliance

Author: ```suggestion
    * Cloud Adoption Framework (CAF) [Abbreviation examples for Azure resources](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/ready/azure-best-practices/resource-abbreviations) alignment
```

  * Microsoft Defender for Cloud

>     * Summary of Microsoft Defender for Cloud coverage by plan (count of Subscription per plan/tier)
>     * Summary of Microsoft Defender for Cloud plans coverage by Subscription (plan/tier)

Author: ```suggestion
    * Summary of Microsoft Defender for Cloud coverage by plan (count of subscription per plan/tier)
    * Summary of Microsoft Defender for Cloud plans coverage by subscription (plan/tier)
```

    * Highlight the usage of deprecated Defender plans (e.g. Container Registry & Kubernetes)

>   * UserAssigned Managed Identities assigned to Resources / vice versa

Author: ```suggestion
  * User assigned managed identities assigned to resources / vice versa
```

>     * Summary of all UserAssigned Managed Identities assigned to Resources

Author: ```suggestion
    * Summary of all user assigned managed identities assigned to resources
```

>     * Summary of Resources that have an UserAssigned Managed Identity assigned

Author: ```suggestion
    * Summary of resources that have a user assigned managed identity assigned
```

  * [Integrate PSRule for Azure](#integrate-psrule-for-azure)

>     * __Pausing 'PSRule for Azure' integration__. Azure Governance Visualizer leveraged the Invoke-PSRule cmdlet, but there are certain [resource types](https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/blob/ab0910359c1b9826d8134041d5ca997f6195fc58/src/PSRule.Rules.Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure.psm1#L1582) where also child resources need to be queried to achieve full rule evaluation.

Author: ```suggestion
    * __Pausing 'PSRule for Azure' integration__. Azure Governance Visualizer uses the Invoke-PSRule cmdlet, but there are certain [resource types](https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/blob/ab0910359c1b9826d8134041d5ca997f6195fc58/src/PSRule.Rules.Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure.psm1#L1582) where also child resources need to be queried to achieve full rule evaluation.
```

    * Well-Architected Framework aligned best practice analysis for resources, including guidance for remediation

>   * Storage Account Access Analysis
>     * Provides insights on Storage Accounts with focus on anonymous access (containers/blobs and 'Static website' feature)

Author: ```suggestion
  * Azure Storage account access analysis
    * Provides insights on Storage accounts with focus on anonymous access (containers/blobs and 'Static website' feature)
```

* __Network__
  * Virtual Networks
  * Subnets
  * Virtual Network Peerings
  * Private Endpoints
* __Diagnostics__

>   * Management Groups Diagnostic settings report
>     * Management Group, Diagnostic setting name, target type (LA, SA, EH), target Id, Log Category status
>   * Subscriptions Diagnostic settings report
>     * Subscription, Diagnostic setting name, target type (LA, SA, EH), target Id, Log Category status
>   * Resources Diagnostic capabilty report (1st party Resource types only)
>     * ResourceType capability for Resource Diagnostics including
>       * ResourceType count and information if capable for logs including list of available og categories
>       * ResourceType count and information if capable for metrics
>   * Lifecyle recommendations for existing Azure Policy definitions that configure Resource diagnostics of type=Log
>     * Check if Policy definitions hold the latest set of applicable log categories
>     * Recommendation to create Policy definition for ResourceType if supported
>     * Lists all PolicyDefinitions that deploy Resource diagnostics of type=log, lists Policy assignments and PolicySet assignments if the Policy defintion is used in a PolicySet definition

Author: ```suggestion
  * Management groups Diagnostic settings report
    * Management group, Diagnostic setting name, target type (Log Analytics, Storage account, Event Hubs), target resource ID, Log Category status
  * Subscriptions Diagnostic settings report
    * Subscription, Diagnostic setting name, target type (Log Analytics, Storage account, Event Hubs), target resource ID, Log Category status
  * Resources Diagnostic capabilty report (1st party resource types only)
    * Resource type capability for resource diagnostics including
      * Resource type count and information if capable for logs including list of available log categories
      * Resource type count and information if capable for metrics
  * Lifecyle recommendations for existing Azure Policy definitions that configure resource diagnostics of type=Log
    * Check if policy definitions hold the latest set of applicable log categories
    * Recommendation to create policy definition for resource type if supported
    * Lists all policy definitions that deploy resource diagnostics of type=log, lists policy assignments and PolicySet assignments if the policy defintion is used in a PolicySet definition
```

* __Limits__

>   * Tenant approaching ARM limits:
>     * Custom Role definitions
>     * PolicySet definitions
>   * Management Groups approaching ARM limits:
>     * Policy assignment limit
>     * Policy / PolicySet definition scope limit
>     * Role assignment limit
>   * Subscriptions approaching ARM limits:
>     * ResourceGroup limit

Author: ```suggestion
  * Tenant approaching ARM limits:
    * Custom role definitions
    * PolicySet definitions
  * Management groups approaching ARM limits:
    * Policy assignment limit
    * Policy / PolicySet definition scope limit
    * Role assignment limit
  * Subscriptions approaching ARM limits:
    * Resource group limit
```

    * Subscription Tags limit
    * Policy assignment limit
    * Policy / PolicySet definition scope limit
    * Role assignment limit
* __Microsoft Entra ID (AAD)__
  * Insights on those Service Principals where a Role assignment exists (scopes: Management Group, Subscription, ResourceGroup, Resource):
    * Type=ManagedIdentity
      * Core information on the Service Principal such as related Ids, use case information and Role assignments
      * For UserManaged Identities the count of assignment to Resources is reported
      * Orphaned Managed Identity - Policy assignment related Managed Identities / the related Policy assignment does not exist
      * UserAssigned Managed Identity - count of Resources that it is assigned to
    * Type=Application
      * Secrets and Certificates expiry information & warning

>       * Report on external Service Principals

Author: ```suggestion
* __Microsoft Entra ID__
  * Insights on those service principals where a role assignment exists (scopes: management group, subscription, resource group, and resource):
    * Type=ManagedIdentity
      * Core information on the service principal such as related IDs, use case information and role assignments
      * For user managed identities the count of assignment to resources is reported
      * Orphaned managed identity - policy assignment related managed identities / the related policy assignment does not exist
      * User assigned managed identity - count of resources that it is assigned to
    * Type=Application
      * Secrets and certificates expiry information & warning
      * Report on external service principals
```

* __Consumption__

>   * Aggregated consumption insights throughout the entirety of scopes (Management Groups, Subscriptions)

Author: ```suggestion
* __Consumption__
  * Aggregated consumption insights throughout the entirety of scopes (management groups and subscriptions)
```

* __Change tracking__
  * Policy
    * Created/Updated Policy and PolicySet definitions (system metadata 'createdOn, createdBy, updatedOn, updatedBy')
    * Created/Updated Policy assignments (system metadata 'createdOn, createdBy, updatedOn, updatedBy')
  * RBAC
    * Created/Updated Role definitions (system metadata 'createdOn, createdBy, updatedOn, updatedBy')
    * Created Role assignments (system metadata 'createdOn, createdBy)
  * Resources

>     * Aggregated insights on Created/Changed Resources

Author: ```suggestion
    * Created role assignments (system metadata 'createdOn, createdBy)
  * Resources
    * Aggregated insights on created and changed resources
```

## Screenshots

HTML file

__HierarchyMap__
![alt text](img/HierarchyMap.png "HierarchyMap")
__TenantSummary__
![alt text](img/TenantSummary_20221129.png "TenantSummary")
__DefinitionInsights__
![alt text](img/DefinitionInsights.png "DefinitionInsights")
__ScopeInsights__

> ![alt text](img/ScopeInsights.png "ScopeInsights")

Author: Please add more meaningful alt-text

*_IDs from screenshot are randomized_

> markdown in Azure DevOps Wiki as Code

Author: ```suggestion
Markdown in Azure DevOps Wiki as Code
```

> ![alt text](img/AzDO_md_v4.png "Azure DevOps Wiki as Code")

Author: Please add more meaningful alt-text

*_IDs from screenshot are randomized_
> Note: there is some fixing ongoing at the mermaid project to optimize the graphical experience:
 <https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid/issues/1177>

## Outputs

* CSV file
* HTML file

>   * the HTML file uses Java Script and CSS files which are hosted on various CDNs (Content Delivery Network). For details review the BuildHTML region in the PowerShell script file.

Author: ```suggestion
  * The HTML file uses JavaScript and CSS files which are hosted on various CDNs (Content Delivery Network). For details review the BuildHTML region in the PowerShell script file.
```

>   * Browsers tested: Edge, new Edge and Chrome

Author: Edge and new Edge?  Can you clarify please.

* MD (Markdown) file

>   * for use with Azure DevOps Wiki leveraging the [Mermaid](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/release-notes/2019/sprint-158-update#mermaid-diagram-support-in-wiki) plugin

Author: ```suggestion
  * for use with Azure DevOps Wiki leveraging the [Mermaid](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/release-notes/2019/sprint-158-update#mermaid-diagram-support-in-wiki) plugin
```

* JSON folder ([demo-output](https://github.com/JulianHayward/AzGovViz)) containing

>   * all Policy and Role assignments (Scopes: Tenant, Management Groups and Subscriptions)
>   * all BuiltIn and Custom Policy/Set definitions (Scopes: Management Groups and Subscriptions)
>   * all BuiltIn and Custom Role definitions
>   * JSON file of ManagementGroup Hierarchy including all Custom Policy/Set and RBAC definitions, Policy and Role assignments and some more relevant information
>   * Tenant tree including all Policy and Role assignments AND all Custom Policy/Set and Role definitions

Author: ```suggestion
  * all Azure Policy and role assignments (Scopes: tenant, management groups, and subscriptions)
  * all BuiltIn and custom policy and policy set definitions (Scopes: management groups and subscriptions)
  * all BuiltIn and custom role definitions
  * JSON file of management group hierarchy including all custom policy, policy set, and RBAC definitions, policy and role assignments and some more relevant information
  * Tenant tree including all policy and role assignments AND all custom policy, policy set, and role definitions
```

>   ![alt text](img/jsonfolderfull450.jpg "JSONFolder")

Author: Please provide more meaningful alt-text for this.

## Trust

> _How can we trust a 20k lines PowerShell script?_ Besides assuring that Azure Governance Visualizer will not harm at any intent, you may want to secure yourself. Let´s leverage Azure built-in capabilities such as VM Insights to monitor the Azure Governance Visualizer activity.

Author: ```suggestion
_How can we trust a 20k lines PowerShell script?_ Besides assuring that Azure Governance Visualizer will not harm at any intent, you may want to secure yourself. Let's use Azure built-in capabilities such as Azure Monitor's VM insights to monitor the Azure Governance Visualizer activity.
```

> Setup a Virtual Machine in Azure, deploy the dependency agent extension and [execute](setup.md#azure-governance-visualizer-from-console) Azure Governance Visualizer.

Author: ```suggestion
Setup a virtual machine in Azure, deploy the dependency agent extension and [execute](setup.md#azure-governance-visualizer-from-console) Azure Governance Visualizer.
```

> In the Azure Portal navigate to the Virtual Machine, Click on __Insights__ in the __Monitoring__ section and click on Map. All connections that have been established will be shown. Now let´s focus on the process __pwsh__ and review the established connections.

Author: ```suggestion
In the Azure Portal navigate to the virtual machine, Click on __Insights__ in the __Monitoring__ section and click on Map. All connections that have been established will be shown. Now let's focus on the process __pwsh__ and review the established connections.
```

> ![alt text](img/insights_map_pwsh.png "JSONFolder")

Author: Please provide a more meaningful alt-text

Query for Log Analytics:

> ```

Author: ~~~suggestion
```kusto
~~~

VMConnection
| where AgentId =~ '<GUID>'
| where ProcessName =~ 'pwsh'
| summarize by DestinationIp, DestinationPort, RemoteIp, Protocol, Direction, RemoteDnsQuestions, BytesSent, BytesReceived
```

> ## Azure Governance Visualizer Setup Guide

Author: ```suggestion
## Azure Governance Visualizer setup guide
```

&#x1F4A1; Although 30 minutes of troubleshooting can save you 5 minutes reading the documentation :) ..

> Check the detailed __[Setup Guide](setup.md)__

Author: ```suggestion
To get started using this, follow the instructions in the provided __[Setup Guide](setup.md)__.
```

> * You can leverage the [Azure Governance Visualizer Accelerator](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Governance-Visualizer-Accelerator) to automate the deployment process.

Author: ```suggestion
Alterantively, you can use the [Azure Governance Visualizer accelerator](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Governance-Visualizer-Accelerator) to automate the deployment process.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Technical documentation

### Permissions overview

> ![alt text](img/permissions.png "example output")

Author: Please provide better alt-text and a text readout for accessibility

### Required permissions in Azure

> This permission is <b>mandatory</b> in each and every scenario!

Author: ```suggestion
This permission is **mandatory** in each and every scenario.
```

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Scenario</th>
      <th>Permissions</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><b>ANY</b><br>Console / Azure DevOps / GitHub Actions ..</td>

>       <td><b>Reader</b> Role assignment on <b>Management Group</b></td>

Author: ```suggestion
      <td><b>Reader</b> role assignment on <b>management group</b></td>
```

    </tr>
  </tbody>

> </table>

Author: Please convert these to markdown tables.

### Required permissions in Microsoft Entra ID

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Scenario</th>
      <th>Permissions</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><b>A</b><br>Console | Member user account</td>

>       <td>No Microsoft Entra ID (AAD) permissions required

Author: ```suggestion
      <td>No Microsoft Entra ID permissions required
```

      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><b>B</b><br>Console | Guest user account</td>

>       <td>If the tenant is hardened (Microsoft Entra ID (AAD) External Identities / Guest user access = most restrictive) then Guest User must be assigned the Microsoft Entra ID (AAD) Role 'Directory readers'<br>

Author: ```suggestion
      <td>If the tenant is hardened (Microsoft Entra external identities / Guest user access = most restrictive) then guest user must be assigned the Microsoft Entra role 'Directory readers'<br>
```

>       &#x1F4A1; <a href="https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/blob/master/articles/active-directory/fundamentals/users-default-permissions.md#compare-member-and-guest-default-permissions" target="_blank">Compare member and guest default permissions</a><br>
>       &#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/users-restrict-guest-permissions" target="_blank">Restrict Guest permissions</a>

Author: ```suggestion
      &#x1F4A1; <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/fundamentals/users-default-permissions#compare-member-and-guest-default-permissions" target="_blank">Compare member and guest default permissions</a><br>
      &#x1F4A1; <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/users/users-restrict-guest-permissions" target="_blank">Restrict guest access permissions in Microsoft Entra ID</a>
```

            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Get Microsoft Entra ID (AAD)<br>Groups</td>
              <td>Service Principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / Group / Group.Read.All<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/group-get#permissions" target="_blank">Get group</a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Get Microsoft Entra ID (AAD)<br>SP/App</td>
              <td>Service Principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / Application / Application.Read.All<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/serviceprincipal-get#permissions" target="_blank">Get servicePrincipal</a>, <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-get#permissions" target="_blank">Get application</a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Get PIM Eligibility<br>SP/App</td>

>               <td>Service Principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / PrivilegedAccess / PrivilegedAccess.Read.AzureResources<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/privilegedaccess?view=graph-rest-beta" target="_blank">Get privilegedAccess for AzureResources</a><br>If you cannot grant this permission then use parameter <i>-NoPIMEligibility</i></td>

Author: ```suggestion
              <td>Get Microsoft Entra ID <br>users</td>
              <td>Service principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / User / User.Read.All<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/user-get#permissions" target="_blank">Get user</a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Get Microsoft Entra ID<br>groups</td>
              <td>Service principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / Group / Group.Read.All<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/group-get#permissions" target="_blank">Get group</a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Get Microsoft Entra ID <br>SP/App</td>
              <td>Service principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / Application / Application.Read.All<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/serviceprincipal-get#permissions" target="_blank">Get servicePrincipal</a>, <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/application-get#permissions" target="_blank">Get application</a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Get PIM eligibility<br>SP/App</td>
              <td>Service principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / PrivilegedAccess / PrivilegedAccess.Read.AzureResources<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/privilegedaccess?view=graph-rest-beta" target="_blank">Get privileged access for Azure resources</a><br>If you cannot grant this permission then use parameter <i>-NoPIMEligibility</i></td>
```

Author: Also, can you update the links please to learn and no locale?

            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Get PIM Eligibility<br>SP/App</td>
              <td>Service Principal's <b>App registration</b><br>grant with <b>Microsoft Graph</b> permissions:<br>Application permissions / PrivilegedAccess / PrivilegedAccess.Read.AzureResources<br>&#x1F4A1; <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/privilegedaccess?view=graph-rest-beta" target="_blank">Get privilegedAccess for AzureResources</a><br>If you cannot grant this permission then use parameter <i>-NoPIMEligibility</i></td>
            </tr>
          </tbody>
        </table>
        Optional: Microsoft Entra ID (AAD) Role 'Directory readers' could be used instead of API permissions (more 'read' than required)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> Screenshot Azure Portal

Author: ```suggestion
Screenshot Azure portal
```

> ![alt text](img/aadpermissionsportal_4.jpg "Permissions in Microsoft Entra ID")

Author: Pleae provide a better accessibility experience here.

> ### PowerShell

Author: Why have this section duplicated here and in the setup guide?  If you keep it, please make sure it aligns with the final result in the setup guide.

* `-SubscriptionQuotaIdWhitelist` - Process only Subscriptions with defined QuotaId(s). Example: .\AzGovVizParallel.ps1 `-SubscriptionQuotaIdWhitelist MSDN_,Enterprise_`
* `-NoResourceProvidersDetailed` - Disables output for ResourceProvider states for all Subscriptions in the __TenantSummary__ section, in large Tenants this can become time consuming
* `-NoResourceProvidersAtAll` - Resource Providers will not be collected
* `-NoMDfCSecureScore` - Disables Microsoft Defender for Cloud Secure Score request for Subscriptions and Management Groups.
* ~~`-DisablePolicyComplianceStates`~~ `-NoPolicyComplianceStates` - Will not query policy compliance states. You may want to use this parameter to accellerate script execution or when receiving error 'ResponseTooLarge'.
* `-NoResourceDiagnosticsPolicyLifecycle` - Disables Resource Diagnostics Policy Lifecycle recommendations
* `-NoAADGroupsResolveMembers` - Disables resolving Microsoft Entra ID Group memberships
* ~~`-NoAADGuestUsers` - Disables resolving Microsoft Entra ID User type (Guest or Member)~~
* ~~`-NoServicePrincipalResolve` `-NoAADServicePrincipalResolve` - Disables resolving ServicePrincipals~~

> * ~~`-ServicePrincipalExpiryWarningDays`~~ `-AADServicePrincipalExpiryWarningDays` - Define warning period for Service Principal secret and certificate expiry; default is 14 days

Author: If things are no longer used, can you please just remove them?

| ARM      | 2020-01-01-preview | /subscriptions/`subscriptionId`/providers/Microsoft.Security/securityContacts                                                          |
| ARM      | 2019-10-01         | /subscriptions/`subscriptionId`/providers                                                                                              |
| ARM      | 2021-04-01         | /subscriptions/`subscriptionId`/resourcegroups                                                                                         |
| ARM      | 2023-07-01         | /subscriptions/`subscriptionId`/resources                                                                                              |
| ARM      | 2020-01-01         | /subscriptions                                                                                                                         |
| ARM      | 2020-01-01         | /tenants                                                                                                                               |

## Integrate with AzOps

> Did you know you can run AzOps from Azure DevOps? Check [AzOps Accellerator](https://github.com/Azure/AzOps-Accelerator).

Author: ```suggestion
Did you know you can run AzOps from Azure DevOps? See the [AzOps Accelerator](https://github.com/Azure/AzOps-Accelerator) to get started.
```

You can integrate Azure Governance Visualizer (same project as AzOps).

```yaml
  pipelines:
    - pipeline: 'Push'
      source: 'AzOps - Push'
      trigger:
        branches:
          include:
            - master
```

## Integrate PSRule for Azure

> __Pausing 'PSRule for Azure' integration__. Azure Governance Visualizer leveraged the Invoke-PSRule cmdlet, but there are certain [resource types](https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/blob/ab0910359c1b9826d8134041d5ca997f6195fc58/src/PSRule.Rules.Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure.psm1#L1582) where also child resources need to be queried to achieve full rule evaluation.

Author: ```suggestion
__Pausing 'PSRule for Azure' integration__. Azure Governance Visualizer uses the Invoke-PSRule cmdlet, but there are certain [resource types](https://github.com/Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure/blob/ab0910359c1b9826d8134041d5ca997f6195fc58/src/PSRule.Rules.Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure.psm1#L1582) where also child resources need to be queried to achieve full rule evaluation.
```

> Let´s use [PSRule for Azure](https://azure.github.io/PSRule.Rules.Azure) and leverage over 260 pre-built rules to validate Azure resources based on the Microsoft Well-Architected Framework (WAF) principles.

Author: ```suggestion
Let's use [PSRule for Azure](https://azure.github.io/PSRule.Rules.Azure) and use over 260 pre-built rules to validate Azure resources based on the Microsoft Well-Architected Framework (WAF) principles.
```

> PSRule for Azure is listed as [security monitoring tool](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/framework/security/monitor-tools) in the Microsoft Well-Architected Framework.

Author: I don't think it is anymore (and this link is not updated).  If it should be, please open a PR to remediate.

Parameter: `-DoPSRule` (e.g. `.\pwsh\AzGovVizParallel.ps1 -DoPSRule`)
Optional parameters:

> * `-PSRuleVersion` - Define the PSRule..Rules.Azure PowerShell module version, if undefined then 'latest' will be used

Author: ```suggestion
* `-PSRuleVersion` - Define the PSRule.Rules.Azure PowerShell module version, if undefined then 'latest' will be used.
```

* `-PSRuleFailedOnly` - PSRule for Azure will only report on failed resource (may save some space/noise). (e.g. `.\pwsh\AzGovVizParallel.ps1 -DoPSRule -PSRuleFailedOnly`)

Outputs:

* HTML (summarized)
  * TenantSummary
  * ScopeInsights

>     * Management Group (all resources below that scope)

Author: ```suggestion
    * Management group (all resources below that scope)
```

    * Subscription
* CSV (detailed, per resource)

TenantSummary HTML output example:

> ![alt text](img/PSRuleForAzure_preview.png "PSRule for Azure / Azure Governance Visualizer TenantSummary")

Author: Please provide a better alt-text experience here.

## Stats

In order to better understand the Azure Governance Visualizer usage and to optimize the product accordingly some stats will be ingested to Azure Application Insights. Results of stats analysis may be shared at a later stage.

### How/What?

> If the script is run in Azure DevOps then the Repository Id and executing principal´s object Id will be used to create an unique identifier.

Author: ```suggestion
If the script is run in Azure DevOps then the Repository ID and executing principal's Object ID will be used to create an unique identifier.
```

> If the script is not run in Azure DevOps then the Tenant Id and executing principal´s object Id will be used to create an unique identifier.

Author: ```suggestion
If the script is not run in Azure DevOps then the Tenant ID and executing service principal's Object ID will be used to create an unique identifier.
```

SHA384/512 hashed combination of

* portion of the repositoryId/tenantId
  * if repositoryId/tenantId startsWith a letter then use characters 3-8 (6 characters) of the first GUID´s block, combine them with the third GUID`s block of the principal´s objectId (4 characters), SHA512 hash them as identifier0
  * if repositoryId/tenantId startsWith a number then use characters 7-12 (6 characters) of the last GUID`s block, combine them with the second GUID´s block of the principal´s objectId (4 characters), SHA384 hash them as identifier0
* portion of the executing principal´s objectId
  * if objectId startsWith a letter then use characters 3-8 (6 characters) of the first GUID´ block, combine them with the third GUID´ block of the repositoryId/tenantId (4 characters), SHA512 hash them as identifier1

>   * if objectId startsWith a number then use characters 7-12 (6 characters) of the last GUID´ block, combine them with the second GUID´ block of the repositoryId/tenantId (4 characters), SHA384 hash them as identifier1

Author: ```suggestion
* portion of the repository ID / tenant ID
  * if repository ID / tenant ID starts with a letter then use characters 3-8 (6 characters) of the first GUID's block, combine them with the third GUID's block of the principal's Object ID (4 characters), SHA512 hash them as identifier0
  * if repository ID / tenant ID starts with a number then use characters 7-12 (6 characters) of the last GUID's block, combine them with the second GUID's block of the principal's Object ID (4 characters), SHA384 hash them as identifier0
* portion of the executing principal's Object ID
  * if Object ID starts with a letter then use characters 3-8 (6 characters) of the first GUID's block, combine them with the third GUID's block of the repository ID / tenant ID (4 characters), SHA512 hash them as identifier1
  * if Object ID starts with a number then use characters 7-12 (6 characters) of the last GUID's block, combine them with the second GUID's block of the repository ID / tenant ID (4 characters), SHA384 hash them as identifier1
```

Combine identifier0 and identifier1

* if objectId startsWith a letter then combine identifiers -> 'identifier0 + identifier1', SHA512 hash them as final identifier and remove dashes (string of 128 characters)

> * if objectId startsWith a number then combine identifiers -> 'identifier1 + identifier0', SHA512 hash them as final identifier and remove dashes (string of 128 characters)

Author: ```suggestion
* if object ID starts with a letter then combine identifiers -> 'identifier0 + identifier1', SHA512 hash them as final identifier and remove dashes (string of 128 characters)
* if object ID starts with a number then combine identifiers -> 'identifier1 + identifier0', SHA512 hash them as final identifier and remove dashes (string of 128 characters)
```

> To conclude the approach: taking 6 or 4 characters from tenantId/respositoryId and objectId of the executing principal to create a unique identifier, which may not be backward resolveable.

Author: ```suggestion
To conclude the approach: taking 6 or 4 characters from tenant ID / respository ID and object ID of the executing principal to create a unique identifier, which may not be backward resolveable.
```

> ![alt text](img/identifier.jpg "identifier")

Author: Please provide better alt text

    "psAzAccountsVersion": "used Az.Accounts PS module version",
    "psVersion": "used PowerShell version",
    "scopeUsage": "childManagementGroup / rootManagementGroup",
    "statsCountErrors": "count of encountered errors",
    "statsCountSubscriptions": "less than 100 / more than 100 (no exact numbers)",
    "statsParametersDoNotIncludeResourceGroupsAndResourcesOnRBAC": "true / false",
    "statsParametersDoNotIncludeResourceGroupsOnPolicy": "true / false",
    "statsParametersDoNotShowRoleAssignmentsUserData": "true / false",
    "statsParametersHierarchyMapOnly": "true / false",
    "statsParametersLargeTenant": "true / false",
    "statsParametersNoASCSecureScore" "true / false",
    "statsParametersNoAzureConsumption": "true / false",
    "statsParametersNoJsonExport": "true / false",
    "statsParametersNoPolicyComplianceStates": "true / false",
    "statsParametersNoResourceProvidersDetailed": "true / false",
    "statsParametersNoResources": "true / false",
    "statsParametersPolicyAtScopeOnly": "true / false",
    "statsParametersRBACAtScopeOnly": "true / false",
    "statsTry": "count of try sending to Application Insights"
```

Azure Application Insights data:

> ![alt text](img/stats.jpg "Stats")

Author: Please provide better alt-text

If you do not want to contribute to stats for Azure Governance Visualizer then you can use the parameter:
`-StatsOptOut`

If you have any concerns or see a risk sending stats please file an issue.

Thank you for your support!

## Security

&#9995; __Take care__: Azure Governance Visualizer creates very detailed information about your Azure Governance setup. In your organization's best interest the __outputs should be protected from not authorized access!__

> &#9757; __Be aware__: Any _member_ user of the tenant can execute/run the script against the Management Group (and below) if the _member_ user has the RBAC Role 'Reader' assigned at Management Group (this of course also applies for the root Management Group). More important: also _guest_ users can execute/run the script if your tenant is not hardened (and has the RBAC Role 'Reader' assigned at Management Group) __Microsoft Entra Id (AAD) | External Identities | External collaboration settings | Guest user access__ [ref](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/users-restrict-guest-permissions)

Author: ```suggestion
&#9757; __Be aware__: Any _member_ user of the tenant can execute/run the script against the management group (and below) if the _member_ user has the RBAC role 'Reader' assigned at management group (this of course also applies for the root management group as well). More important: also _guest_ users can execute/run the script if your tenant is not hardened (and has the RBAC role 'Reader' assigned at management group) __Microsoft Entra Id | External Identities | External collaboration settings | Guest user access__ [Restrict guest access permissions in Microsoft Entra ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/users/users-restrict-guest-permissions).
```

🛡️ __Collaborate with the security team__: Azure Defender for Cloud may alert Azure Governance Visualizer resource queries as suspicious activity:
![alt text](img/azgvz_MDfC_securityAlert.png "Microsoft defender for Cloud security alert")

## Known issues

> Working with Git and Windows cloning from your AzDO repository you may experience the following error:

Author: ```suggestion
Working with Git and Windows cloning from your Azure DevOps repository you may experience the following error:
```

```
fatal: cannot create directory at 'output/JSON_...': Filename too long
```

To work around that issue you may want to enable longpaths support.
__Note the [caveats](https://github.com/desktop/desktop/issues/8023)!__

```
git config --system core.longpaths true
```

## Facts

> Disabled Subscriptions and Subscriptions where Quota Id starts with with "AAD_" are being skipped, all others are queried. More information on Subscription Quota Id / Offer numbers: [Supported Microsoft Azure offers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/costs/understand-cost-mgt-data#supported-microsoft-azure-offers).

Author: ```suggestion
Disabled subscriptions and subscriptions where Quota ID starts with with "AAD_" are being skipped, all others are queried. More information on Subscription Quota ID / Offer numbers: [Supported Microsoft Azure offers](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/costs/understand-cost-mgt-data#supported-microsoft-azure-offers).
```

ARM Limits are not acquired programmatically, these are hardcoded. The links used to check related limits are commented in the param section of the script.

## Contribution

You are welcome to contribute to the project. __[Contribution Guide](contributionGuide.md)__

Thanks to so many supporters - testing, giving feedback, making suggestions, presenting use-case, posting/blogging articles, refactoring code - THANK YOU!

> Thanks Stefan Stranger (Microsoft) for providing me with his Azure Governance Visualizer outputs executed on his implementation of EnterpriseScale. Make sure you read Stefan´s Blog Article: [Enterprise-Scale - Policy Driven Governance](https://stefanstranger.github.io/2020/08/28/EnterpriseScalePolicyDrivenGovernance)

Author: ```suggestion
Thanks Stefan Stranger (Microsoft) for providing me with his Azure Governance Visualizer outputs executed on his implementation of EnterpriseScale. Make sure you read Stefan's Blog Article: [Enterprise-Scale - Policy Driven Governance](https://stefanstranger.github.io/2020/08/28/EnterpriseScalePolicyDrivenGovernance)
```

Thanks Frank Oltmanns-Mack (Microsoft) for providing me with his Azure Governance Visualizer outputs executed on his implementation of EnterpriseScale.

Carlos Mendible (Microsoft) gracias por tu contribución on the project - run Azure Governance Visualizer with GitHub Codespaces.

Special thanks to Tim Wanierke, Brooks Vaughn and Friedrich Weinmann (Microsoft).

And another big thanks to Wayne Meyer (Microsoft) for constant support and building bridges.

Kudos to the [TableFilter](https://www.tablefilter.com) Project Team!

Kudos to [LorDOniX](https://github.com/LorDOniX/json-viewer) for JSON-viewer!

Kudos to Bernie White and [PSRule for Azure](https://azure.github.io/PSRule.Rules.Azure) team!

Kudos to @dolevshor for [Azure Orphan Resources - GitHub](https://github.com/dolevshor/azure-orphan-resources) _ARG queries and workbooks_!

Kudos to @ElanShudnow for [AzSubnetAvailability - GitHub](https://github.com/ElanShudnow/AzureCode/tree/main/PowerShell/AzSubnetAvailability)

## AzAdvertizer

> ![alt text](img/azadvertizer70.png "example output")

Author: Please add more meaningful alt-text

> Also check <https://www.azadvertizer.net> - AzAdvertizer helps you to keep up with the pace by providing overview and insights on new releases and changes/updates for Azure Governance capabilities such as Azure Policy's Policy definitions, initiatives (Set definitions), aliases and Azure RBAC's Role definitions and resource provider operations.

Author: ```suggestion
Also check <https://www.azadvertizer.net> - AzAdvertizer helps you to keep up with the pace by providing overview and insights on new releases and changes/updates for Azure governance capabilities such as Azure Policy's policy definitions, initiatives (set definitions), aliases, and Azure RBAC's role definitions and resource provider operations.
```

## AzADServicePrincipalInsights

> Also check <https://aka.ms/AzADServicePrincipalInsights> - What about your Microsoft Entra ID Service Principals? Get deep insights and track your Service Principals with AzADServicePrincipalInsights. Create a HTML overview, export to CSV and JSON and use it for further processing...

Author: ```suggestion
Also check <https://aka.ms/AzADServicePrincipalInsights> - What about your Microsoft Entra ID service principals? Get deep insights and track your service principals with AzADServicePrincipalInsights. Create an HTML overview, export to CSV, and JSON and use it for further processing...
```

> ![alt text](img/azadserviceprincipalinsights_preview_entra-id.png "example output")

Author: Please provide more meaningful alt-text
